
Ensembl
-------

Ensembl is a software system which produces and maintains automatic
annotation on eukaryotic genomes. The end result is a database of
genomic sequence with features attached to them: of particular
importance are gene features which represent protein coding genes in
the genome. Ensembl copes with rapid updates in data and working draft
quality genome inherently and provides stable identifiers for genes so
researches can track the genes of interest across different versions
of the data.

The Ensembl system is currently being applied to the human genome data
and is being kept up to date on the current state of the human genome.
It will in the future be applied to other genomes.

Ensembl provides a number of different data formats so that the
information contained within it can be easily integrated using
existing tools. These include EMBL/Genbank formats, GFF and
GAME-XML. In addition, the entire ensembl database can be mirrored and
the Ensembl software used to retrieve object-based views of the
database.

Ensembl analysis is currently based around the following techniques:

	Genscan prediction of proteins
		BLAST of predicted peptides vs the following databases
		      protein databases
		      EST databases
		      veterbrate cDNA databases

        Assembly of exons which have been confirmed by the BLAST hits
into gene structures which can span contigs in working draft data.


        Repeat Masker repeat prediction

        Pfam analysis of the predicted genes


The Ensembl web site is designed to provide an easy to query interface
into the genome.


The following data sources and techniques will be intergrated into Ensembl in
the future:

         Refined gene prediction using state-of-the art tools.

         Genomic Map data, genetic, radiation hybrid and disease loci

         Bac End data

         Contig Maps.


The Ensembl software is designed for a lifetime of around 10 years and
has been written so that it is portable to other sites and
maintainable by other people. The Ensembl software is also open
source, and anyone can use or modify the Ensembl software with almost
minimal restrictions, both academic and commercial.

